When scientists looked at the stars long ago, they saw patterns. They did not
understand everything about what they saw, so they kept looking in order to learn more.
That is what scientists do. They ask questions and search for information to answer their
questions. They are similar to explorers. While they do not travel far the way explorers do,
they do make a kind of journey. Scientists want to learn more, so their journey is to travel
from what they know to what they discover.
 Scientists have learned many facts about our planet. They’ve discovered that it is
incredibly diverse, with many different kinds of environments. There are both places that
are extremely hot and spots that are freezing. There are mountains and plains, hills and
valleys. There are deep oceans and there are great rivers and waterfalls. There are
tropical rainforests and arid deserts. Those are all various parts of our planet. Still, there
is much more to learn about what is here on Earth, particularly what is under the oceans.
Scientists still are exploring this planet. A scientist dedicates much time to learning, first
how to research, then using those skills to learn about the world. The scientist works hard
to help us all become more knowledgeable about our world. Research is the key to learning
more.
Our planet is in a galaxy called the Milky Way. The sun is a big star in our part of
this giant galaxy, but our galaxy holds millions of other stars. The sun is very important to
our planet because it provides light during the day, and gives us heat, too. Two other
planets are closer to the sun than Earth: Mercury and Venus. Each planet has its own
characteristics. We have learned more about them by studying the solar system with
telescopes and spacecraft. Unmanned spacecraft have taken scientific instruments as far
away as the planet Mars. There they found similarities to Earth, including kinds of land
formations such as mountains as well as other features, and a landscape that seems to be
the same rocky surface on most of that red planet, but they have not found any lifeforms on
that barren planet.
 Scientists figured out how the Earth changes. Earth orbits the sun once each year,
which means it travels once around the sun every 365 days. The other eight planets in our
solar system also orbit around the sun. All travel in a pattern called an ellipse, which is a
type of oval. Therefore, at times, Earth is farther from the sun. Scientists figured out that
the farther Earth was from the sun, the cooler the planet was. They also figured out that it
is the tilt of the Earth’s axis, however, that has the greatest effect on temperatures.
 Scientists are still learning about our galaxy. There will always be new things to
discover. Today astronauts travel into space, they are explorers. Long ago, explorers used
to travel the sea and map places no one had been before. Now, astronauts travel in ships—
spacecraft--thousands of miles in space, where still much is unknown. While it is
dangerous to travel in space, astronauts are dauntless and bravely travel thousands of
miles just to learn. They bring skills with technology and research and courage to their
work.

One thousand pounds of cheese for one
flower! That may sound like an unfair
trade, but it happened once. Tulips were
first grown in Holland in the 1600s. Many
rich people enjoyed planting them in
their gardens. They were willing to pay
a lot of money for the tulip bulbs, which
looked like small onions. Traders drove
up the prices. They began to buy up the
tulips to sell them later for more money.
Other people enjoyed collecting rare
types of tulips. Soon, tulip bulbs were
worth thousands of silver coins. People
sold everything they had to buy them.
The prices went up so quickly that people
thought they would be able to get rich by
selling the tulips later.
Tulips became popular very quickly, but not everyone knew what they were. One sailor
returned home from a long voyage. He did not know about the tulips. He visited a rich
gentleman who collected rare tulips. The rich man had an expensive tulip bulb on his table.
He went out of the room and left the sailor alone. The sailor thought that the bulb was an
onion. He sliced it and placed it on his sandwich. Then he ate it! The owner was furious when
he found out that his expensive flower was eaten for lunch!
The craze for the new flowers soon ended. Traders realized that they were just flowers.
The prices came down quickly. Many people lost a lot of money. All they had left were
cheap tulip bulbs. Today, people all over the world value tulips, but if you ate one for lunch,
no one would become angry.
Imagine a time when there was no
writing. For many thousands of years,
people did not write things down. Instead,
they memorized stories and important
information. Writing was first discovered
in Iraq more than 5,000 years ago. It
developed when people began to grow
their food instead of relying on hunting and
gathering. They needed a way to document
how much grain they had, so writing was a
useful way to keep track of food supplies.
Writing was also used to record past events
and write about the gods.
In ancient Egypt, writing was highly valued.
Writers were so special that their job had
the title of “scribe.” Boys could become
scribes by apprenticing themselves to older scribes. Apprentices began to learn writing when
they were 12 years old. It was not easy to learn this craft since ancient Egyptians wrote using
hieroglyphics. Their system of writing used pictures instead of letters. At first, young scribes
wrote on pieces of clay. When they got better, they were allowed to write on papyrus, which
was paper made from river reed plants. Despite the difficulty, many boys wanted to become
scribes. It was seen as an important job. Scribes did not have to be soldiers or participate in
growing food. Instead, they wrote important documents.
Writing was even more special for the ancient Egyptians than it is for us. Egyptians believed
that writing had a kind of magic. There was even a god and a goddess of writing. The people
of Egypt believed that scribes could heal disease just by writing down a prayer for someone
to be cured. Imagine if people thought that you could do magic by writing! In a way, you can,
because when you write, you create stories and share your imagination with others.
